# Standard Digital Signature
Easy-to-use library for creating digital identities based on encryption and digital signature of document and validation of signatures.
The standard digital signature project has a universal target, and can be run on both Linux and Windows systems on x86, x64 and ARM platforms.

This standard method can be used to generate a digital signature. Digital signatures are used to detect unauthorized modifications to data and to authenticate the identity of the signatory. In addition, the recipient of signed data can use a digital signature as evidence in demonstrating to a third party that the signature was, in fact, generated by the claimed signatory. This is known as non-repudiation since the signatory cannot easily repudiate the signature at a later time.

The Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA) is a public-key cryptosystem and Federal Information Processing Standard for digital signatures, based on the mathematical concept of modular exponentiation and the discrete logarithm problem. DSA is a variant of the Schnorr and ElGamal signature schemes.

The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) proposed DSA for use in their Digital Signature Standard (DSS) in 1991, and adopted it as FIPS 186 in 1994.

## Overview

The DSA works in the framework of public-key cryptosystems and is based on the algebraic properties of modular exponentiation, together with the discrete logarithm problem, which is considered to be computationally intractable. The algorithm uses a key pair consisting of a public key and a private key. The private key is used to generate a digital signature for a message, and such a signature can be verified by using the signer's corresponding public key. The digital signature provides message authentication (the receiver can verify the origin of the message), integrity (the receiver can verify that the message has not been modified since it was signed) and non-repudiation (the sender cannot falsely claim that they have not signed the message). 

[Digital Signature Standard (DSS) - technical documentation](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.186-5.pdf)

[(FIPS) compliance](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/security/fips-compliance)

## Digital Security Foundation
The Digital Security Foundation is an independent organization that deals with the development of the digital signature standard by adopting rigorous mathematical criteria and entirely open source code starting from the programming language and all the libraries used, this makes the source fully inspectable by experts in cryptography and programming. Any suggestions on how to improve this software, how to evolve it and on new features to add, will be seriously considered and a group of experts belonging to the foundation will carry out rigorous research on the new development of the digital signature management library. If you have special academic skills, you can contribute to the work of the foundation by becoming an active member.

# Usage example
[Usage: For usage examples, documentation and assistance please refer to the open source project page](https://github.com/Andrea-Bruno/StandardDigitalSignature)

# API documentation
[Technical documentation for developers: Description of functions and methods implemented in the library](https://www.fuget.org/packages/StandardDigitalSignature)

# NOTE:

## 1) Sign a document
The example for digitally signing a document in a very simple and minimalist way is contained entirely on page [Signature.razor](https://github.com/Andrea-Bruno/StandardDigitalSignature/blob/master/DigitalSignatureWebUI/Pages/Signature.razor).
The digital signature is placed on a separate file keeping the original document unaltered which will continue to be viewable with a standard viewer. The validation of the signature then takes place by subjecting both files to verification: The original document and the separate file with the digital signature generated by this tool.

## 2) Digital signature validation
A simple example of digital signature validation is contained in page [SignatureValidation.razor](https://github.com/Andrea-Bruno/StandardDigitalSignature/blob/master/DigitalSignatureWebUI/Pages/SignatureValidation.razor).
To verify the digital signature, you need the original document, plus the attached file with the digital signature. In the case of multiple digital signatures, there will therefore be multiple digital signature files, each generated by each individual person who signed the document.


